# Parkinson-disease-prediction
<p>
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a progressive disorder with a presymptomatic interval; that is, there is a period during which the pathologic process has begun, but motor signs required for the clinical diagnosis are absent. There is considerable interest in discovering markers to diagnose this preclinical stage. Current predictive marker development stems mainly from two principles; first, that pathologic processes occur in lower brainstem regions before substantia nigra involvement and second, that redundancy and compensatory responses cause symptoms to emerge only after advanced degeneration. Decreased olfaction has recently been demonstrated to predict PD in prospective pathologic studies, although the lead time may be relatively short and the positive predictive value and specificity are low. Screening patients for depression and personality changes, autonomic symptoms, subtle motor dysfunction on quantitative testing, sleepiness and insomnia are other potential simple markers. More invasive measures such as detailed autonomic testing, cardiac MIBG-scintigraphy, transcranial ultrasound, and dopaminergic functional imaging may be especially useful in those at high risk or for further defining risk in those identified through primary screening. Despite intriguing leads, direct testing of preclinical markers has been limited, mainly because there is no reliable way to identify preclinical disease. Idiopathic RBD is characterized by loss of normal atonia with REM sleep. Approximately 50% of affected individuals will develop PD or dementia within 10 years. This provides an unprecedented opportunity to test potential predictive markers before clinical disease onset. The results of marker testing in idiopathic RBD with its implications for disease prediction will be detailed.</p>
